= JRuby-Enginize

== About

JRuby-Enginize is a generator for Google AppEngine compliant JRuby
applications. The generator currently supports Sinatra and Merb with more
frameworks to come in the future. If you want to learn more about Google
AppEngine, go to http://code.google.com/appengine and have a look at the
tutorials. For more about JRuby, please go to http://www.codehaus.org and see
what's up running Ruby applications on a Java VM.

The Google people work hard to make JRuby easier to deploy with each release
of their tools, so don't blindly trust all those blog posts and samples you'll
find but use the newest version of jruby-enginize and have a look at the Wiki
page of the Google AppEngine JRuby tools
(http://code.google.com/p/appengine-jruby/wiki/GettingStarted)
to learn about the details beyond.

If you used JRuby-Enginize before, you will note two bigger changes:

* There is no need for a separate JRuby installation anymore, as the
  google-appengine gem does that for you.

* Gem handling changed as Google now uses bundler and all required gems have
  to be registered in a new file called "Gemfile". These gems are loaded on
  the fly when you call "rake appengine:run" or "rake appengine:deploy". Quite
  elegant...

== Installation

These are the steps for installing the Google tools plus JRuby-Enginize
running on top of it to streamline your first steps:

  sudo gem sources -a http://gemcutter.org  # Only needed once!
  sudo gem install google-appengine
  sudo gem install jruby-enginize

!!Warning: As Github cancelled gem support, we moved the gem from Github.com
to Gemcutter.org. If you install from Github, you will not get the newest
version! See http://gemcutter.org/gems/jruby-enginize for details.

You also need an Google AppEngine account to actually publish your code.
Without account you can still play around with the tools and run applications
locally.
  
== Using jruby-enginize

JRuby-Enginize includes is a single executable named <tt>jruby-enginize</tt>
which is inspired by the <tt>rails</tt> tool for generating Rails applications.
So just call

  jruby-enginize

and have a look at the options.

Here are the steps for creating and deploying a new Sinatra application:

* Register with Google AppEngine and create a new application ID.

* Generate your application with that new ID as directory name and the e-mail
  address of your Google account. Optionally choose a template ("sinatra" or
  "merb" for now).

  Sample:

  <tt>jruby-enginize --email john@doe.com --template sinatra jruby-enginize</tt>

* Go to the new directory

* Learn about the available rake tasks

  <tt>rake --tasks</tt>

* Try out your application locally: 

  <tt>rake appengine:run</tt>

  !!Attention: Whenever you want to require additional gems, be sure
  to add them to the bundler configuration in <tt>Gemfile</tt> instead of
  using <tt>jgem</tt> as the Google toole maintains a local repository per
  project and bundle the files to upload from that information.

* Deploy the application:

  <tt>rake appengine:deploy</tt>

  The first time you deploy your application, you will be asked for e-mail and
  password to confirm your upload to the server.

You can repeat the deployment whenever you want. Be sure to set the version
number in the <tt>AppEngine::Rack.configure_app</tt> part of <tt>config.ru</tt>
to a new value, when you are experimenting with an unstable version and don't
want to risk your users getting exceptions.

You can try the new version by opening e.g.

<tt>http://3.latest.jruby-enginize.appspot.com</tt>

and replacing "3" with the version number you want to run.

Switch the application to the new version as default (stable version) by
opening

<tt>http://appengine.google.com/deployment?&app_id=jruby-enginize</tt>

and setting a new default available at

<tt>http://jruby-enginize.appspot.com</tt>

A small README with these and a few more application specific hints is
generated along with the source code. Have fun.

== Copyright & License

Copyright (c) 2009 Holtzbrinck Digital GmbH, Jan Ulbrich

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
